
=encoding utf8

=cut

$Id$

=head1 NAME

geoip.conf - config file for the PAM module pam_geoip

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The configuration file (by default F</etc/security/geoip.conf>) contains lines
of four items: domain, service, action and location. For a description of
these, see below.

When the service specific configuration file
(F</etc/security/geoip.SERVICE.conf>) is used, the I<service> column must
not be present. If this file is present, the default file is not used, even
if present on the command line as C<system_file=/file/name>.

If you need to match on city names containing non L<ascii(7)> characters
(like C<DE, Köln> or C<SE, Växjö>), you can set the character set to use
in the module's arguments: C<iso-8859-1> or C<UTF-8> (the default).

Any (sub-)item except for I<action> or the distance matching can use a single
asterisk (C<*>) to match any value.

=over 4

=item domain

A user name, group name (prefixed by C<@>) or C<*> for any user / group

=item service

A list of services (or C<*>) separated by C<,> (NO spaces allowed)

=item action

C<allow>, C<deny> or C<ignore>. This is what will be returned to PAM if the
location matches:

=over 2

=item allow

I<PAM_ALLOW>

=item deny

I<PAM_PERM_DENIED>

=item ignore

I<PAM_IGNORE>

=back

=item location

GeoIP location, separated by C<;>. This can be:

=over 2

=item *

a country code (uppercased, two characters), C<*> or C<UNKNOWN>

=item *

a country code like above and C<,> and a city name (or C<*>). When using a
GeoIP country database, this part must be C<*>, i.e. the full entry looks
like C<DE, *>.

=item *

a distance from a given point, e.g.

 50.0 { 51.513888, 7.465277 }

This is not available when using a GeoIP country database.

=back

=back

The location part can use spaces, but note: city names must be given as in
the GeoIP database, i.e. S<C<Mountain View>>, NOT S<C<Moutain  View>> or
C<MountainView>.

The distance is measured in kilometers. In the above example we match
a circle of 100 km diameter around Dortmund, Germany (51° 30′ 50″ north,
7° 27′ 50″ east (51.513888888889, 7.465277777777876)). Coordinates west
and south are given as negative values. Values must be given in decimal.

=head1 EXAMPLE

 #
 # /etc/security/geoip.conf - config for pam_geoip.so
 #

 #<domain>   <service>  <action>  <location>
 @wheel      sshd       allow     DE,* ; SE , Nybro
 @wheel      sshd       allow     SE, Emmaboda; SE,Växjö
 someuser    sshd       allow     50.0 { 51.513888, 7.465277 }
 someuser    sshd       allow     DE,Köln
 otheruser   sshd       allow     SE,Umeå; DK, København
 *           *          ignore    UNKNOWN
 *           *          deny      *
 ## END

or the same as F</etc/security/geoip.sshd.conf>:

 #<domain>     <action>  <location>
 @wheel        allow     DE,* ; SE , Nybro
 @wheel        allow     SE, Emmaboda; SE,Växjö
 someuser      allow     50.0 { 51.513888, 7.465277 }
 someuser      allow     DE,Köln
 otheruser     allow     SE,Umeå; DK, København
 *             ignore    UNKNOWN
 *             deny      *

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pam_geoip(8)>, L<pam_access(8)>, L<pam.d(5)>, L<pam(7)>

=head1 AUTHOR

Hanno Hecker C<E<lt>vetinari@ankh-morp.orgE<gt>>

=cut
