
=encoding utf8

=cut

$Id$

=head1 NAME

pam_geoip - GeoIP account management module for (Linux-)PAM

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 account required pam_geoip.so [system_file=file] [geoip_db=file]
        [charset=name] [action=name] [debug] [geoip6_db=file]
	[use_v6=1] [v6_first=1]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pam_geoip> module provides a check if the remote logged in user is
logged in from a given location. This is similar to L<pam_access(8)>, but
uses a GeoIP City or GeoIP Country database instead of host name / IP matching.

The matching is done on given country and city names or on distance from
a given location. With a country database only matches of the countries are
possible.

This PAM module provides the I<account> hook only.

If an IP is not found in the GeoIP database, the location to match against
is set to C<UNKNOWN, *>, no distance matching is possible for these,
of course.

B<NOTE>: I<pam> just receives a hostname. When trying to find an IP for
this name the modules tries IPv4 first, then IPv6. This can be changed
with the C<v6_first=1> switch.

IPv6 support is only available with geoip v1.4.8 or greater, and is has to
be enabled by using the C<use_v6=1> switch.

If a file named F</etc/security/geoip.SERVICE.conf> (with SERVICE being the
name of the PAM service) can be opened, this is used instead of the default
F</etc/security/geoip.conf>.

The first matching entry in the L<geoip.conf(5)> file wins, i.e. the action
given in this line will be returned to PAM:

=over 4

=item allow

PAM_SUCCESS

=item deny

PAM_PERM_DENIED

=item ignore

PAM_IGNORE

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

These options may be given in the PAM config file as parameters:

=over 4

=item system_file=/path/to/geoip.conf

The configuration file for B<pam_geoip>. Default is
F</etc/security/geoip.conf>. For the format of this file, see L<geoip.conf(5)>.

B<NOTE>: when a file F</etc/security/geoip.SERVICE.conf> file is present, this
switch is ignored (with C<SERVICE> being the name of the PAM service, e.g.
C<sshd>).

=item geoip_db=/path/to/GeoIPCity.dat

The GeoIP database to use. Default: F</usr/local/share/GeoIP/GeoIPCity.dat>.
This must be a C<GeoIP City Edition> or a C<GeoIP Country Edition> file, see
L<http://www.maxmind.com/en/city>, L<http://www.maxmind.com/en/city> and
L<http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geolite> for more information.

=item geoip6_db=/path/to/GeoIPCityv6.dat

The GeoIP database to use. Default: F</usr/local/share/GeoIP/GeoIPCityv6.dat>.
This must be a C<GeoIP City Edition IPv6> or a C<GeoIP Country Edition IPv6>
file, see above for more information.

=item use_v6=1

Use IPv6 DB.

=item v6_first=1

Try resolving as IPv6 before trying as IPv4 hostname.

=item charset=CHARSET

The charset of the config file, defaults to C<UTF-8>. Other possible value
is C<iso-8859-1> (case insensitive).

=item action=ACTION

Sets the default action if no location matches. Default is C<deny>. Other
possible values are C<allow> or C<ignore>. For the meanigns of these, see
above.

=item debug

Adds some debugging output to syslog.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item /etc/security/geoip.conf

The default configuration file for this module

=item /etc/security/geoip.SERVICE.conf

The default configuration file for PAM service SERVICE

=item /etc/pam.d/*

The L<PAM(7)> configuration files

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<geoip.conf(5)>, L<pam_access(8)>, L<pam.d(5)>, L<pam(7)>

=head1 AUTHOR

Hanno Hecker C<E<lt>vetinari@ankh-morp.orgE<gt>>

=cut
